In this course we'll take a look at the tools and settings available to us and blender to light your
scene render it and to set up your materials.
The first thing I want to mention here is that if you look right up here at the top if you've just opened
up blender in a new scene you may find that yours is set to Blender rendering engine and that's an older
render engine that has been around since the very beginnings of Blender.
Now the newer render engine the cycles render engine is the one I'll be using throughout this course.
When it first came out several years ago computer processing speeds weren't as good as they are now.
And so the cycles render I think got a bad rap for being very slow and taking too long.
But I think they've done some upgrades to it some speed improvements.
And as always it seems computer processing speeds have only increased.
So all of this makes it my choice for my default render engine.
So when I open up a new scene it comes up with the cycles render engine selected already.
Now if you want to do that too you really need to do is change here to the cycles render engine and
then come over to file save startup file and that will ensure that every new file you create has this
same setup.
Now be sure you do this with the brand new scene where you haven't added anything changed anything.
If you do it to an existing scene with models and animation and everything else in it those are going
to be saved in your project as well so be sure you do that in a brand new scene.
Even though this is a course on materials and lighting I want to begin with something that isn't materials
and lighting and that's rendering because to be able to see our final lighting and material setup we're
going to need to know how to render our scene and to do that really the easiest way is just to come
over here to the render panel and click render and if we do that and that's what we see just the cube
I'm going to hit the escape key now and go back to my MAME 3-D view.
When you open up a new scene file in Blender you get this cube you get a camera and you get a point
light.
And this is just so that if you hit the render button you don't just see blank a blank screen you at
least see something when you hit render.
Now oftentimes when you begin a scene you'll be just deleting all of these things and beginning a new
and that's fine but they'll be helpful for us as we talk about rendering here.
Now when you render your scene you can choose to have it come up in the image editor or you can have
a new window pop up.
So now that I've chosen that if I hit render a new window will pop up over here and I kind of like that
honestly.
So I think I'll leave that the way it is there.
The size of your render can be adjusted here in the resolution.
Currently it's at 19:20 by 10 A.D. which is the standard high definition HD resolution now but it's
at 50 percent so it's half that size.
That just helps speed up the render a little bit as we're doing tests.
So if I wanted to render out a final image of my scene I could just click and drag that up to 100 hit
render.
And now you can see it's quite a bit bigger.
I'll just hit escape to cancel that and then I'll close that window and I'll take this back down to
50 percent.
There we go.
Now you have a lot of different render presets here you can render an HDTV 10 eighty which is this 1920
by 10 2080 resolution you've got the 720 P resolution which is 12 80 by 720 which is the smaller high
definition resolution.
And you've got some other presets for NTSC and PAL television down here.
Your frame range over here has to do with your animation.
Now when you render out an animation all you're doing is just rendering out individual frames once again.
In other words when you create an animation down here on your timeline and you play your animation each
frame of the animation is an individual image.
So if you've created an animation and want to render it out.
That's what this would do for you.
It would render out each individual frame as an individual image to your drive that collection or sequence
of images.
You would then be able to take into a video editing program like Adobe Premiere final cut or even to
something like quick time pro and create a video file from that image sequence to learn more about that
process.
Check out Blendr 4:21 animation production.
We talk more about rendering out an animation in that course.
Let's do one more thing to our scene here let's add a ground plane so that we can see our shadows a
little better.
So I'll come over here to the Create tab click on plane and I'll hit s and scale that up a bit.
And we go.
So now I'll grab that cube and move that up a bit.
We go like this.
And now it's hit that render button and see what we get.
So here we go now we've got the plane in the scene and we can begin to see some of the shadows happening
here from our point light.
Now one of the important things of any good render coming out of Blendr or any 3-D animation program
is appropriate shadows shadows really help us ground objects figure out how big they are.
We live in a world with one star up in the sky one sun and that one light really helps tell us about
the world around us.
If an object connects with a shadow it tells us that it's on the ground.
If an object does not connect with a shadow it tells us that it's above the ground.
So if I took this and moved it up just a little bit like this and hit render the visual cue here of
the shadow not fully connecting with the object tells us a tremendous amount about the placement of
objects in the scene.
So when youre thinking about creating a scene when you are rendering the scene and setting up the materials
and the lighting shadows can really be a part of your composition and tell the viewer a lot about it.
As we talk about materials We'll also discuss specular highlights the shine on something the way the
the lights in the environment interact with the object that really helps.
Tell us about the surface of the object as well so shadows and highlights are really important in the
way you set up your scene.
All right so we have our scene and weve rendered it out.
We know we have shadows in our scene which is good.
We need that.
So in the next video what lets do is let's begin talking about the different kinds of lights that Blendr
gives us to light our scene.